this is Pat Hines for Pacifica here in
Managua I'm talking to Philip agee who's
here in Nicaragua visiting what is your
reason for coming to Nicaragua I'm here
invited by the Nicaraguan Committee for
solidarity with peoples and by the
Central American anti-imperialist
tribunal which was founded a month or so
ago I came fundamentally to talk to
different people about the dangers of
counter-revolution fomented by the CIA
from the United States and from the
various other CIA stations in the area
in US embassies of course including the
office here in the US Embassy in Managua
recently in the press here and I believe
in the press in the United States there
have been charges that you were somehow
involved in plotting actions against the
US Embassy would you like to comment on
those story yes at the beginning of my
stay here that is I think it was the
12th of October a few days after i
arrived i started the trip with a press
conference this was before a series of
meetings which i had had averaging four
or five a day for the next for the last
10 days but at this press conference i
mentioned that in the government
submissions against me in the legal case
in which i was trying to get my passport
back this goes back two years they had
accused me of being the intellectual
author or of having helped to create the
psychological climate for the takeover
of the embassy in tehran and then for
the burnings of the embassies the US
embassies that followed in Islamabad and
Tripoli and I said at the press
conference at the time that I had denied
it then because in fact I had never
thought
contributed to those actions but
speaking of the principal I said well
why not why not say it now when I say
that all of those peoples in Latin
America who support the sandanista
revolution in Nicaragua and the whole
revolutionary movement in Central
America why shouldn't they prepare now
for meeting violence with counter
violence in the extreme case and one
would hope that it would never reach
that of a direct US military attack
against Central America in El Salvador
Nicaragua over that matter against Cuba
or Grenada not to be surprised or to
allow it to happen as it did in nineteen
sixty-five in Santo Domingo the
Dominican Republic but to show from
right now the White House and the
Pentagon that the cost would be too high
in terms not only of all of those
Americans who would be going back to the
United States and plastic bags as they
did from Vietnam but that the cost would
be extremely high to American diplomatic
installations to all over Latin America
this statement which was conditioned on
the possibility of it attack against
Central America or Grenada or Cuba was
distorted in the American press and in
particular in the Chicago Tribune in its
edition of sunday the what would it be
the 17th of October there was an article
which alleged that I had been exhorting
the Nicaraguan people to take over the
embassy or to burn it which was totally
false because my comments were very
clearly not directed to the Nicaraguan
people but to those in other countries
in case of aggression against Nicaragua
and this information was then sent
somehow to one of the Chicago Tribune
journalists who seems to be traveling
with the Vice President Bush on his trip
through Latin America and so he took
this information distorted as it was
and had an interview with bush in which
he was in which Bush commented against
me of course and trying to say that I
was an anti-american and this and that
and the typical thing that they've been
trying to do for a long long time but
what was what was troubling to me about
it was not only that they distorted the
information but that they go the vice
president himself who on all his tour in
all of his stops has been bad-mouthing
Nicaragua